I want to start with some extra TypeScript features,
which you can utilize.
Maybe you saw that when I accessed
the request body or the request params,
I get auto-completion as long as I
work on the request object.
For example, there I get help
and I can understand that there is a body property.
But what I then access on the body itself
is really flexible.
I can access anything there
because the TypeScript does not understand
what will be in the body of the incoming request.
And the same for the params.
You could argue that it should be able
to understand what's in it because
we encode it here,
but that's not how TypeScript works.
It's not able to analyze your averacode
to understand what should be in this params object.
Long story short,
params as well as body,
in the end here,
is of type any.
That's the type of body and
that's the type of params.
Well, params is actually a params dictionary.
But that's essentially just an object
with key value pairs,
where any keys are allowed.
The problem with that simply is that
we don't get the best possible
TypeScript support here.
If I wrote texts here,
nobody would warn me about this mistake.
And we're using TypeScript
to avoid mistakes like this.
Of course TypeScript can't anticipate
which kind of data we get
on incoming requests,
but we as a developer should know
which kind of data we get there.
We can let TypeScript know about this.
And now to make TypeScript aware of our knowledge
of how a request body should look like,
we can alter this a little bit.
We can set the body here,
equal to request body,
and then use type conversion
with the ask keyword
to convince TypeScript that this is of a certain type.
And now we can define a type of our choice
that reflects how a body,
how a request body for this route,
should look like.
So for example, here,
we set this to an object type,
where we know that there will be a text property
which would be a string.
And now if we use this new body down there,
we can access text on that,
but if it access texts, I get an error.
Of course we can generalize this.
I can extract this type and
create a new type alias up there.
Request body, set this equal to this object type,
and then use this request body type alias
for my conversion down there,
and also in any other places where I expect something.
For example, here,
where I expect to get data,
like this.
I can utilize this body in all the places
where I access request body
to get that extra type safety,
and avoid typos.
And of course we can do the same with the params.
We know how the params will look like,
so I could add a type alias here, request params,
but with that we could register
another object type here on this type alias,
and add the todo ID, which is also a string.
And then we can use the exact same pattern
on the params.
So here I got my params,
which is request params as RequestParams,
and now I can use params here,
and again if I now have a lower case I,
for example, I get a warning via TypeScript.
So now we have this improved TypeScript usage here.
And of course we can do the same here for deletion.
Now, of course you can define multiple aliases
for bodies and params
if you have different routes
with different kinds of bodies and params.
Here, I just always happen to work
with the same kind of request body
and the same kind of request params,
but you could have multiple,
differently named type aliases here,
to use this pattern in different routes.
With that, we improve this code even more.
And now, we're really taking advantage of TypeScript
to force us, as a developer,
to write better code.